---
title: "Grief"
date: 2025-11-01 13:00:00 +0000
categories: [Essays]
tags: [personal, loss, emotions]
---
I have never experienced grief until recently. I had imagined how it might feel reading about other people’s experiences but when i lost someone the feeling of grief was not what i had imagined. It was different, very different. There was immense pain like a gut punch or a like a hole in my stomach but it wasn’t physical at all.

It ebbed and flowed in phases like a volcano with sometimes erupting with vigor and scorching everything, sometime lying dormant and often quietly flowing. As if grief has a life of its own. I had imagined grief to be a passive response to something that happened which would fade away as the memory of the event diffused. But it didn’t, I had imagined grief to be like sadness, static and still and slowly diffusing away with time but grief is not static, it is active and alive and moves through me. It is an entity that occupies time and space. I have realised that it will never go away completely and I will not be able go back to who I was before it. I cannot move to a new place away from it, I have to build the civilisation of my life around it. 

Grief is also not always sad, sometimes the grief transmutes into anger and sometimes into resolve and sometimes just silence.  You don’t outgrow grief, it lives with you and you live with it. There is no timeline and there is no forgetting and i don’t want to forget it. The grief is product of love and forgetting grief means forgetting the love and the loss that caused it. It is just there and it will always be there and I am ok with it. I want to live with it.

This grief is something that i was never prepared for, i can’t prepare for. It wasn’t like one of my anxieties or like how i felt depressed. It was something different, it is active and evolving. There is no timeline or set way to process it, there aren’t enough tears to extinguish it. And there is no need to extinguish it, it can be there and I can still live with it. 
